# Model selection for generalized zero-shot learning

## Summary

<Summary: > This paper proposes a model selection mechanism for generalized zero-shot learning, which utilizes auxiliary datapoints generated by a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) to alleviate the challenge of unbalanced data distribution. The proposed mechanism trains a classifier to distinguish between the test datapoints from seen and unseen classes, using both the original and auxiliary datapoints. The experiments on four datasets show that the proposed model achieves state-of-the-art results. The paper includes keywords such as model selection, generalized zero-shot learning, and Generative Adversarial Network.


## Target Task

nlp

## Content

<Abstract: >In the problem of generalized zero-shot learning, the datapoints from unknown classes are not available during training. The main challenge for generalized zero-shot learning is the unbalanced data distribution which makes it hard for the classifier to distinguish if a given testing sample comes from a seen or unseen class. However, using Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) to generate auxiliary datapoints by the semantic embeddings of unseen classes alleviates the above problem. Current approaches combine the auxiliary datapoints and original training data to train the generalized zero-shot learning model and obtain state-of-the-art results. Inspired by such models, we propose to feed the generated data via a model selection mechanism. Specifically, we leverage two sources of datapoints (observed and auxiliary) to train some classifier to recognize which test datapoints come from seen and which from unseen classes. This way, generalized zero-shot learning can be divided into two disjoint classification tasks, thus reducing the negative influence of the unbalanced data distribution. Our evaluations on four publicly available datasets for generalized zero-shot learning show that our model obtains state-of-the-art results. Keywords: model selection, generalized zero-shot learning, generative adversarial network



---

